Thank you PERIOD Im honored to be with you today for your commencement
from one of the finest universities in the world PERIOD Truth be told
I never graduated from college and this is the closest Ive ever gotten
to a college graduation PERIOD

I dropped out of Reed College after the first six months but then
stayed around as a dropin for another eighteen months or so before I
really quit PERIOD So why did I drop out QUESTION_MARK It started
before I was born PERIOD My biological mother was a young unwed
graduate student and she decided to put me up for adoption PERIOD She
felt very strongly that I should be adopted by college graduates so
everything was all set for me to be adopted at birth by a lawyer and
his wife except that when I popped out they decided at the last minute
that they really wanted a girl PERIOD So my parents who were on a
waiting list got a call in the middle of the night asking Weve got an
unexpected baby boy PERIOD Do you want him QUESTION_MARK They said Of
course PERIOD My biological mother found out later that my mother had
never graduated from college and that my father had never graduated
from high school PERIOD She refused to sign the final adoption papers
PERIOD She only relented a few months later when my parents promised
that I would go to college PERIOD

This was the start in my life PERIOD And seventeen years later I did
go to college but I naively chose a college that was almost as
expensive as Stanford and all of my workingclass parents savings were
being spent on my college tuition PERIOD After six months I couldnt
see the value in it PERIOD I had no idea what I wanted to do with my
life and no idea of how college was going to help me figure it out and
here I was spending all the money my parents had saved their entire
life PERIOD So I decided to drop out and trust that it would all work
out OK PERIOD It was pretty scary at the time but looking back it was
one of the best decisions I ever made PERIOD The minute I dropped out
I could stop taking the required classes that didnt interest me and
begin dropping in on the ones that looked far more interesting PERIOD

It wasnt all romantic PERIOD I didnt have a dorm room so I slept on
the floor in friends rooms PERIOD I returned Coke bottles for the
fivecent deposits to buy food with and I would walk the seven miles
across town every Sunday night to get one good meal a week at the Hare
Krishna temple PERIOD I loved it PERIOD And much of what I stumbled
into by following my curiosity and intuition turned out to be
priceless later on PERIOD Let me give you one example PERIOD

Reed College at that time offered perhaps the best calligraphy
instruction in the country PERIOD Throughout the campus every poster
every label on every drawer was beautifully handcalligraphed PERIOD
Because I had dropped out and didnt have to take the normal classes I
decided to take a calligraphy class to learn how to do this PERIOD I
learned about serif and sansserif typefaces about varying the amount
of space between different letter combinations about what makes great
typography great PERIOD It was beautiful historical artistically
subtle in a way that science cant capture and I found it fascinating
PERIOD

None of this had even a hope of any practical application in my life
PERIOD But ten years later when we were designing the first Macintosh
computer it all came back to me and we designed it all into the Mac
PERIOD It was the first computer with beautiful typography PERIOD If I
had never dropped in on that single course in college the Mac would
have never had multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts and
since Windows just copied the Mac its likely that no personal computer
would have them PERIOD

If I had never dropped out I would have never dropped in on that
calligraphy class and personals computers might not have the wonderful
typography that they do PERIOD

My second story is about love and loss PERIOD I was lucky PERIOD I
found what I loved to do early in life PERIOD Woz and I started Apple
in my parents garage when I was twenty PERIOD We worked hard and in
ten years Apple had grown from just the two of us in a garage into a
$2 billion company with over 4 000 employees PERIOD Wed just released
our finest creation the Macintosh a year earlier and Id just turned
thirty and then I got fired PERIOD How can you get fired from a
company you started QUESTION_MARK Well as Apple grew we hired someone
who I thought was very talented to run the company with me and for the
first year or so things went well PERIOD But then our visions of the
future began to diverge and eventually we had a falling out PERIOD
When we did our board of directors sided with him and so at thirty I
was out and very publicly out PERIOD What had been the focus of my
entire adult life was gone and it was devastating PERIOD I really
didnt know what to do for a few months PERIOD I felt that I had let
the previous generation of entrepreneurs down that I had dropped the
baton as it was being passed to me PERIOD I met with David Packard and
Bob Noyce and tried to apologize for screwing up so badly PERIOD I was
a very public failure and I even thought about running away from the
Valley PERIOD But something slowly began to dawn on me PERIOD I still
loved what I did PERIOD The turn of events at Apple had not changed
that one bit PERIOD Id been rejected but I was still in love PERIOD
And so I decided to start over PERIOD

I didnt see it then  but it turned out that getting fired from Apple
was the best thing that could have ever happened to me PERIOD  The heaviness
of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner
again  less sure about everything PERIOD  It freed me to enter one of the
most creative periods in my life PERIOD  During the next five years I started
a company named NeXT  another company named Pixar and fell in love
with an amazing woman who would become my wife PERIOD  Pixar went on to
create the worlds first computeranimated feature film  Toy Story 
and is now the most successful animation studio in the world PERIOD 

In a remarkable turn of events  Apple bought NeXT and I returned to
Apple and the technology we developed at NeXT is at the heart of
Apples current renaissance  and Lorene and I have a wonderful family
together PERIOD 

Im pretty sure none of this would have happened if I hadnt been fired
from Apple PERIOD It was awfultasting medicine but I guess the patient
needed it PERIOD Sometimes lifes going to hit you in the head with a
brick PERIOD Dont lose faith PERIOD Im convinced that the only thing
that kept me going was that I loved what I did PERIOD Youve got to
find what you love and that is as true for work as it is for your
lovers PERIOD Your work is going to fill a large part of your life and
the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great
work and the only way to do great work is to love what you do PERIOD
If you havent found it yet keep looking and dont settle PERIOD As with
all matters of the heart youll know when you find it and like any
great relationship it just gets better and better as the years roll on
PERIOD So keep looking PERIOD Dont settle PERIOD

When I was young there was an amazing publication called The Whole
Earth Catalogue which was one of the bibles of my generation PERIOD It
was created by a fellow named Stuart Brand not far from here in Menlo
Park and he brought it to life with his poetic touch PERIOD This was
in the late Sixties before personal computers and desktop publishing
so it was all made with typewriters scissors and Polaroid cameras
PERIOD it was sort of like Google in paperback form thirtyfive years
before Google came along PERIOD I was idealistic overflowing with neat
tools and great notions PERIOD Stuart and his team put out several
issues of the The Whole Earth Catalogue and then when it had run its
course they put out a final issue PERIOD It was the midSeventies and I
was your age PERIOD On the back cover of their final issue was a
photograph of an early morning country road the kind you might find
yourself hitchhiking on if you were so adventurous PERIOD Beneath were
the words Stay hungry stay foolish PERIOD It was their farewell
message as they signed off PERIOD Stay hungry stay foolish PERIOD And
I have always wished that for myself and now as you graduate to begin
anew I wish that for you PERIOD Stay hungry stay foolish PERIOD

Thank you all very much PERIOD 
